Changelogs for Digital Twin Manager Plugins 1.3.0 (#2680)
SoftwareAG/c8y-docs: content/change-logs/application-enablement/dtm-1020-1-19-cockpit-and-dm-to-support-root-asset-creation-feature.md

Reviewer: This entry can me removed as it is a duplicate of the one in the DTM changelogs branch

Reviewer 2: This entry has been removed from DTM PR

---
date: ""

> title: "Ability to create root assets using the 'Add asset module' plugin in the Cockpit and Device Management application"

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
title: "Ability to create root-level assets using the add asset functionality in the UI"
```

product_area: "Application enablement & solutions"
change_type:
    - value: "change-QHu1GdukP"
      label: "Feature"
component:
    - value: "component-Tl88RYb4A"
      label: "Digital Twin Manager"
build_artifact:
    - value: "tc-wYIY0MBDO"
      label: "dtm"
ticket: "CTM-1654"
version: "1020.1.19"
---

> Enables root asset creation capability in Cockpit and Device management, allowing users to create and manage root assets from Cockpit and Device management.

Reviewer 4: Enhanced the Add Asset plugin to support root asset creation in Cockpit and Device Management. When the Add Asset plugin is installed, users will see an Add asset button on the groups page in both Cockpit and DM, enabling the users to create root assets directly from these interfaces.

Reviewer 2: Previously, the Add Asset plugin could only create child assets within existing hierarchies through the subassets view. With this update, users can now create root-level assets and as well as the complete asset hierarchies based on predefined asset models. This enhancement provides greater flexibility creating asset hierarchies through the plugin interface.

> Enables root asset creation capability in Cockpit and Device management, allowing users to create and manage root assets from Cockpit and Device management.

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Previously, the Add Asset plugin could only create child assets within existing hierarchies through the subassets view. With this update, users can now create root-level assets and as well as the complete asset hierarchies based on predefined asset models. This enhancement provides greater flexibility creating asset hierarchies through the plugin interface.
```

Reviewer 3: @pavanshivajirao @lara-c8y Who is the owner of the automatically created PRs? Whoever this is, I like the suggestion from Rahul above. Please use this for this ticket, either in this or the other PR.

> Previously, the add asset functionality in the subassets view only allowed to create child assets within existing hierarchies. With this change, users can now create root-level assets as well as complete asset hierarchies based on predefined asset models. This enhancement provides greater flexibility creating asset hierarchies through the UI.

Reviewer 3: @Vagdevi1998 @lara-c8y Is there already documentation available for this feature? That it would make sense to add a link to it.

Reviewer 2: This has been updated in the README.md file for plugins. But there is no user documentation on this.

> Previously, the add asset functionality in the subassets view only allowed to create child assets within existing hierarchies. With this change, users can now create root-level assets as well as complete asset hierarchies based on predefined asset models. This enhancement provides greater flexibility creating asset hierarchies through the UI.

Reviewer 5: This change specifically affects the plugin functionality. The regular application UI already supported this feature, it was intentionally restricted in the plugin until this update. Plugins terminology is referred here https://cumulocity.com/docs/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#extensions

Would propose this description : "Previously, the Add Asset plugin could only create child assets within existing hierarchies through the subassets view. With this change, users can now create root-level assets as well as complete asset hierarchies based on predefined asset models. This enhancement provides greater flexibility creating asset hierarchies through the plugin interface."

> Previously, the Add Asset plugin could only create child assets within existing hierarchies through the subassets view. With this update, users can now create root-level assets and as well as the complete asset hierarchies based on predefined asset models. This enhancement provides greater flexibility creating asset hierarchies through the plugin interface.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Previously, the add asset functionality in the subassets view only allowed to create child assets within existing hierarchies. With this change, users can now create root-level assets as well as complete asset hierarchies based on predefined asset models. This enhancement provides greater flexibility creating asset hierarchies through the UI.
```

Reviewer 3: I would not talk about "plugins" in the user change logs. This term is not used throughout the user documentation which might be confusing.

Is this new feature described in the user documentation? Then please add the respective link here.

Reviewer 2: This is an enchancement to the existing "Add asset" plugin feature

Reviewer 5: This feature relates to the "official plugin," which is currently available in the Extensions section. This is planned for integration into both the Cockpit and Device Management. At this stage, I would be also of the opinion to retain the term "plugin." Once it becomes integrated into the default applications, we can consider alternative terminology.

Plugins terminology is referred here https://cumulocity.com/docs/standard-tenant/ecosystem/#extensions

<img width="2034" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/b675da34-c212-4ba1-b23a-28be32abdd4d">
